how
to make politics more, how to end corruption in
politics. I'm an optimist. I wouldn't have been
running that many times. I wouldn't have spent
everything earned on political campaigns. I'd be
working dead now in the law practice, the solo
practice stage of 81. But I spent, I made good money
practicing law, spent it and raised it because I
couldn't raise much money, very little money. run
because of my positions and what I've done. They
knew the first time I ran for statewide office for
Attorney General, 38. From those suits I tried to
eat, what I knew, they bought me from the
beginning. I'd already served notice. I'd fanned
the best they could put up in the courtroom. And it
wasn't that easy out on the stump, where money
counts more. And it's a big state with many
millions of people. widened and dispersed over
the state, and it's expensive getting a message
out to them. I took campaign after campaign before
I could get well enough acquainted to win. The
Texas Observer pointed out in 1972 that, quote,
Yarborough proved in three terms in the U.S.
Senate that a strong person can hold high office
and remain uncorrupted, unquote. Do you think
this is still possible today? And if so, how do you
think, who do you think are examples of this, both
in Washington and Austin? Well, I think that,
surely I think it's possible today. And I don't
think that I kicked myself letting them take that
office away from the people when I was defeated.
But I had my Cold War GI Bill amendments to make it
stronger finally passed in March or in April with
the primary in May. I think if I had come back down
here three or four months before that campaign, I
don't think I would have lost even without money.
But the fact that I was there passing those bills, I
was passing major bills. I passed the OSHA, the
Occupational Health and Safety Bill. chairman of
that full committee and I made them come in and
threatened to open the doors and invite the press
and read to the Lord who was breaking the form if
they didn't. That's kind of unprotocol-ish but it
was my last year I was defeated and I was determined
to get it passed and did in December of 1970 and I
passed the biggest, we needed the
hospitalization badge at the end, I passed the
biggest hospital bill in the history of the
country because for the first time, instead of
just building a new hospital, to put money in there
to renovate an old one, to build an additional
wing. There's a lot of wastage in it. You couldn't
touch an old hospital, but just build a new one. We
put those amendments on there that amounted to,
the paper said, $5,700,000,000. It was about a
year. That's about five years. Well, Nixon vetoed
it. I'd been defeated. And when you're sponsoring
a deal, you're the author and the sponsor and
chairman of the health subcommittee. the
majority leader of the Democrats when the
majority doesn't handle a bill in the Senate by
hand making you stand up and present it and try to
pass it. You do it yourself, y'all. So passed it all
right. Nixon vetoed it. He felt safe about it
because no lame duck senator had passed a bill over
a presidential veto in 57 years. I passed that
hospital bill over Nixon's veto first The first
one since the direct election of the United States
Senators had started in 1913. The first time that a
lamed up Senator had passed a bill for the
President's veto. And that was one of my kudos that
I had. But, so, yes, if I had to come back here and
just, and people warned me. Russell Long told me,
he said, he just quit and left about five months
before his election. He said, I figured my
election was more important than these bills that
came up a few months here. And I had my bills, and I
worked on them there, and didn't get back here.
They made great hay of that, very effective hay.
They said, look there, he's got the tonic fever,
got the . Has he been back in your county this past
year, two years, three years? Well, when I went
there, the Congress was in session about eight or
nine months a year. But those latter years, They
were in session 12 months a year. Of course, now
they take a recess in the summer and take another
fall. They weren't taking other weekends.
They're working 12 months through, and that was
beating us Democrats because we weren't. That's
what helped break the common cause, plus the fact
that it wouldn't take any vacation time or help
eliminate those Democratic majorities in
Congress. Who do you think are examples of strong,
uncorrupted leaders, both in Washington and
Austin? Well, there are plenty. I'm not there on
the ground enough to know and to see them and to
know. I can only speak from what you read in the
newspapers. When I was there with all the
information you gathered from different
sources, newspaper men, staff and all, you knew.
But I don't know now. I know over in the Senate, the
people that I consider incorruptible, Cranston,
California, ran a very poor race for the
presidency because he was bald and wasn't
handsome. And then he got sick in the middle of it.
He's the oldest one running, and it's terrible for
the oldest one to get sick. And it liquidated him.
And Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts there,
absolutely financially improper, but you can't
touch them. They're richer than anybody else. If
somebody come in and try to insult one of them to
bribe him, I don't think it's ever happened. He
did. He'd be, of course, that's not true of all men.
Some are so greedy they want more and more all the
time. Not the Kennedys. They're dedicated
people. I served on the committee with all three of
the Kennedy brothers. They all got on that
committee because that's where you could pass
legislation to help people. And I figured up last
year the total number of years I was serving with
the Kennedy brother on that committee was over 15.
Because sometimes two of them would be on there at
one time, Ted Kennedy and Robert Kennedy. and I do
serve them, but they are. There are plenty of
others. I just don't know them as well as, I think,
the one in that category was Joe Clark of
Pennsylvania. I mentioned him earlier. There are
a lot of them. How about here in Austin? Most of
them, though, let me say this. Most of them who are
incorruptible don't walk around saying, I'm not a
crook, I'm an honest man. They think that virtue is
its own role. They don't go around. The man goes
around saying, I don't take money on the table. I'm
an honest man. You'd better look out for it. You'd
better start peeping on the table, see when it's
reaching for it. How about in Austin? Well, not
that close. In fact, no, we are not that close up
there, out of that hundred. And A1 people, there
are plenty of
incorruptible people. Plenty. Some on the other
side, too. What do you think the administration of
President Reagan's, the effects of the
administration have been on the United States,
particularly in the areas of education and child
welfare? It's been a disaster, an unlimited
disaster. The great American historian, I think
the greatest living historian, Mr. Steele
Cumminger, you know, he says that this
administration
is the least compassionate administration in all
the history of America. The whole history is down
on that weight. They have cut hundreds of
thousands out of colleges. They'll never have an
opportunity to go. We built that up. I told you
about $11 million I left there, and the bills we
passed, they built it up at one time to $13 million.
There are 139 colleges in Texas, 66 lost
enrollment last fall and lower enrollments than
there were before. I'll give a sample of One
Direction. We had passed a bill there to provide
that in the case the parents died before they were
old enough to get, go there and work and grow their
social security, and many do through terrible
crashes on the old, on the highways and so bad, and
through occupation and safety. Our occupation
and safety laws are the weakest of any industrial
measure in the world. and many are killed in the
industry, leaves the young children without the
breadwinner there. So we passed the law that they
could go to college four years, not beyond their
22nd year, not to lure them back in if they'd raised
a family of 45 or something while they were young, a
chance to have a maximum four years college
education. By January of 1981, when Reagan took
office, there were 700,000 of those in college And
the spring, not of this year, but of last year, that
was $250,000 less. He got an executive order. He
entered an executive order, and he had the power to
do that. Not to take anybody out of college, but to
cut off, to modify. And this reform they were
talking about of Social Security cut out that
$700,000 in college. The last of them were there,
and $55,000 would be there last year. It had been
cut down then to have $250,000 less, and about
$360,000 less in college and cutting it
constantly. I don't know what it is this year. It's
much less than that. And $455,000 would be that
last year. Now, I've talked to the admissions
officer out here to give you a sample of how this
works. The admissions officer last year, I don't
have the September figures, but up through the
spring of 84, three years of Reaganomics. There
were 19,500 students at the University of Texas
out of the some 45,000 there who were going to the
university under some form of federal grant loan
or grant or a combination of them. That had fallen
by last spring of 84 to 14,500, 5,000 less. That's
over 25% in three years in all categories
together, just over 25% less. dropped, fallen in
enrollment, but they've got more fluent students
in there. There's room for others, there's more
money to come in. And then another category, they,
we had the National Defense Education Loans. That
was to lend money to students whose, whose wealth
was such they couldn't come in on the poverty
programs, but their parents could borrow money
They could borrow money, but the federal
government insured it. They insured the loans.
Many men's college owned insured U.S. loans,
borrowed from banks, savings and loans, credit
unions, anywhere like that. Credit placed the
federal government insuring the loan. Now, they
changed the criteria. They required, under
Reagan, that for that student to borrow, the
family had to go on the note, the parents or the
guardian, and they had to be able to pay it back if
the student couldn't. That made the family the
insurer rather than the U.S. government. The U.S.
government insured it, but the family was
standing in between. And that took out the
students that had no family resources to borrow
that money to pay it back if they couldn't. And that
pushed that group into upper echelon bracket, the
family with the wealth to pay it back if the student
couldn't. Now, with those two categories, the
admission officer out here told me, he said, The
tragedy of this is seeing both categories lose.
It's what you'd call the lower middle income group
that we lose in students among whom we find some of
the greatest dedication, some of the hardest
work, some of the greatest desire to succeed. But
from that group, asking who the lower middle class
is, they're not going to tell you that. You find out
yourself. But you go look at the income tax returns
in the World Almanac, you can find those
categories of what they earn and so forth. And in
certain categories, there are many categories,
but they give some big ones. School teachers,
policemen, firemen, small farmers, small
businessmen, people in the middle class, called
middle class, but in lower income groups. Their
children are out. And they said they had those
parents were killed. No other way to go to college.
No other way where they lost their credit. That's
the economics of the Reagan era. It's a disaster.
And if it keeps on, they're going to be fewer. And
it's heightened here in Texas where they're
fixing to triple or quadruple or quintuple the
tuition per hour that students pay in
state-supported institutions of higher
learning. That's going to worsen it here in Texas
when Reagan has gotten the Congress to go along
with him to cut down on this at the national level,
cutting deeply into student aid. And then the
state raises the tuition. They've been paying it
out at the same time. It's going to be a disaster.
And what Texas is doing, the other states are
probably going to do there. Raising tuition to
make up for the federal money and all that. And if
this keeps on another four years, unless the
Congress takes hold and kicks Reagan in the shins
and back in, then they ought to run the education on
all sides. They ought to just beat them on all sides
if they have any nerve. It's kind of a bunch of
gutless wonders that all this happened, except
they didn't say nothing. They said, so mildly,
they wonder whether they mean this or not. They
ought to be shouting from the housetops. People
will look back at the 60s and 70s in the future, if
this continues, as the golden age of American
education. Most students had a chance. Most of
all the young people had a chance to get an
education. When you were a senator from Texas...
The Texas press didn't cover you very often. There
was sort of a press blackout. Yeah. What do you
attribute that to? Oh, the fact that the big money
in Texas was opposed to me. I was voting for people.
They weren't students. You didn't. I was
partially responsible. I didn't put a lot of press
releases out about all these bills that are
passing for education. Of course, they had the
people of Texas brainwashed against that. So that
federal money, the $8, I was out in the panhandle
that they were dedicating a dam where I'd got
money, and had a school that had grown up on the
banks of that lake up there on the Canadian River,
and I said, did you get that aid? The trooper in
there says, no, we don't want any of that federal
money in here. We're Texans. We're Texans. He
wouldn't accept federal aid. He had his kids more
poorly educated than those in some other
districts. Because he didn't get that money for
the scientific equipment. He didn't have it for
the language, all these boos. where each kid in his
foreign language class in high school had his own
booth satisfied with the money he put in on the
National Defense Education Program. What do you
see as the future of the Democratic Party? Back to
your other question. Another reason for that, I
complained to the Associated Press when I had
releases. I had some bills I prayed about,
especially my park bills and all, about the unfair
treatment I was getting compared to the... to the,
uh, the tower, the Republican Center, and all. In
fact, they had no notice of what I was doing, just,
they were trying to make people believe I was a
married man, and then completely no influence of
what they were really
trying to do, so they could beat me in the next
election. Well, uh, he, uh, AP says, we've checked
that. We send this out. There's a regional
distribution point. Kansas City, I believe,
said, we're giving you a fair break. All the
stories going out of Washington, we're giving you
a fair break. He says, the paper's infected. Don't
worry. It's not cut out here in Washington. It's
cut out down at the lower level. And they say, well,
what they don't want. And they just wouldn't take
anything. I got some good publicity out of it.
Negatively, if they had something attacking me,
Sometimes that didn't get in because I had orders
to cut every story with my name in them. Sometimes
they'll attack me. I'd say it wouldn't be in the
Texas paper. The general orders, cut your
articles. Some didn't take the trouble to read it
and discriminate. Just don't give them any
publicity. I talked to the Wall Street reporter
man in Washington one time after I'd been there
some years, about 10 years, I said, see, your paper
amazes me. You're supposed to be in the paper with
big money and wealth and everything in the
country. I get a fair shake out of Wall Street
Journal than I do any big daily newspaper in Texas.
How do you explain that? He said, we're
non-political. The people that we give the people
the news, what happens. And we figure they're
intelligent enough to make their judgment on
that, who they want to support and not support. We
tell them what he's doing. We try to write him a
portion of what's actually happening. Ours is a
financial paper. It's not trying to pump one
party, one person against the other. It's lay it
all out there and let the people judge. And the
financials of the people that are able to buy, do
buy the Wall Street Journal, we think have been
close enough to face certain judgment. We believe
in keeping them informed. And the result was I had
some very friendly articles from Boyle Street
Journal for my big ticket bill. No big newspaper in
Texas would write an article in favor of that big
ticket bill, not a one. Now when I had the Padre
Island-Niceman seashore bill, I had three papers
help me, the Texas Observer here, The Corpus
Christi Caller Times and the Houston Press. It was
a Scripps-Howard paper in Houston that later went
under and was absorbed by one of the other two.
There used to be three dailies there. As the three
papers, one was this observer that comes out a
couple times a month, and two dailies supported
the Padre Island. The Guadalupe Mountain was
better supported. That was far out in West Texas,
and the West Texans wanted some of that. At the
Corpus Christi, Colder Times, Fort Worth,
Star-Telegram, and others were pumping for it. It
wasn't as hard to get as the Pottery Isle bill. But
the Big Thicket, Time Life, the most profitable
operation of Time Life is not for the
mini-magazines in St. Francis or the
recreational places they have around the world.
Their biggest income is from those fine
plantations down in the Big Thicket, and they were
cutting the weight. First, the Dallas News wrote
an article at the beginning before that for the big
ticket. Maybe one other paper. They soon quit. We
can see what was happening. They would tell them,
here, you are going to run the price of folk paper up
here if you let us continue the operation of that
Acor's operation. And already out of 3 and 1 half
million, there wasn't but about 300,000 acres
left. We got a measly 85,000, 84,550 acres in the
park. That's all to say they're butchering it now.
The
Secretary of Interior and all just giving permits
to any driller that wants to go in there and drill
those. The oil was reserved. The oil was reserved
to the landowners. But we proved at the hearings
it's perfectly feasible if there's oil under that
to drill it by slant hole drilling. And I was down
there at a big thicket association meeting here
this past winter, and had a meeting there honoring
Arthur Fullenkamp, who's dead now, who was a great
protagonist of the Big Thicket. His paper, the
Coombs name, said it was red oil over Texas. He had
to sign the big double barrel shotgun, the editor
filed fourth barrel. And he did. He scorched them.
He scorched them. We'd reproduce it and mail it
over to Texas. And they fight for the Big Thicket.
And so that
fight there, there's nobody left to attack that.
What they're doing, what the former Secretary of
the Interior said, that a lot of these areas should
be reseeded to the states. They're not worthy of
being a national park area. So if they butcher that
enough, what they plan to do is give it back, reseed
Texas and its legislature up here, there'd be
probably some broken legs trying to outrun each
other to give it back to the lumber companies. It'd
be a great danger hurting somebody if they rushed
to vote for it to give it back. What do you see as the
future of the Democratic Party, primarily here in
Texas, but also throughout the United States? I
see the Democratic Party to be very much stronger
in 1986 than it was in 1984. Now, Reagan did not get
all this vote that he got on personal popularity. I
think the press has wholly misprinted that and
maybe didn't know. I don't mean they deliberately
lied about it. They just looked the surface thing
at Humphrey. Democrats are unpopular. The
Democratic Party and what it stood for was not that
unpopular. And Humphrey wasn't. I mean, Mondale
wasn't until he got up and made that acceptance
speech and said, I'm going to raise your taxes. I
went out campaigning for One day, it was the law's
cause. Old friends have known the staunch
Democrats all their life. He said he was going to
raise our taxes. That was the thing that killed him
off cold. Killed the Democratic horse. It didn't
kill the horse, it killed the potential of
winning. I think without that, that kind of
blunders, by trying to fire Manette and put Burt
Lance in, they may be an honest man, but the whole
country regards Burt Lance as a crook. whether he
is or not it was there and then later was oh and the
big ones try to pull out to try to pull out of his uh
boo-boo on the taxes later says i'm not going to
raise any taxes for anybody that makes less than 25
000 a year it'll only be those above that well
average airline pilot in the united states
average salaries are 75 000 a year steel workers
40,000. CWA, communication workers, many of
them. I expect the average is over 25. Oil,
chemical, and atomic workers, I don't know what
the average is, 35,000, 40,000. He lost 40% of
labor. That ran off his more affluent labor
workers who could have contributed to his
campaign. He lost their support and all. So that's
the reason that Reagan got that big vote. It's one
reason. Those politicians in Washington are
smart enough and worked it. They haven't so much
trouble with In Congress now, though, he's got
enough bull weevils from Republicans in the House
to pass his legislation, and they know it's an
abomination, what he's trying to do to the poor
people, the child support for the... He's cutting
all the... What he reminds me of more than anything
was Hitler prior to World War II when he was cutting
all domestic programs in Europe and building up
the most powerful offensive war machine in the
history of the human race up to that time. Reagan's
following the same pattern, build up a powerful,
it's got the most powerful war machine in the
world, make it stronger, have the most powerful
war machine in the world, cut all these domestic
forces and push that back, which is pushing
civilization back. There were... Wait just a
minute.
There were... 1978, there were 24 million people
in the poverty bracket in America. Five years
later, under Reaganomics, 35 million. And if you
had an old one, back here when there were, the
number below the poverty level was 39 million when
Kennedy won. By the time the Republicans came in,
they had it reduced to 25 million. And that 25
million had the percent below the poverty level
The anti-poverty bills did not fail. They
succeeded wonderfully. We've had nothing but a
barrage of propaganda since Nixon went in to the
present that all this was a failure,
well-intentioned failure. It succeeded
wonderfully. Here, between 60 and 70, the
percentage of people below the poverty level
reduced from 22% to 12%. It went down to 12%. Now,
1983, it's back up to 15% and climbing. and
climbing rapidly. And the number of people in that
poverty bracket now are higher than they've been
since 1960 when the Democrats won the election. 35
million. That's just one in this year. You can take
other facts after facts. Poverty by family
status. Very poor. All the statistics show the
disaster. The disaster to the people. Economics.
Here is the total... I want to take taxes.
Individual. Come here. Yeah, just let it go in
here. Okay. All right. Individual, look here in
fiscal eight before Reagan went in. Get one of
these books and look at it. You get all kinds. $244
million was the taxes paid by individuals.
Corporate income tax was $64 million. Now, three
years later, The total taxes paid to individuals,
$288 million, just about 20% over that 24, not
quite 20% increase. But corporation taxes have
been cut from $64 to $37 million with the greatest
power grabbed by big corporations grabbing over
smaller than snow in American history, the
biggest profits in American history. Look at
those gross profits of General Motors and their
taxes are cut down that way. The big rich never had
such largesse before. An economist out here at the
university has told me that never in the history of
mankind has there been such a tremendous shift of
wealth from one group to another in a nation except
in time of war or revolution. But in peaceful
means, just peaceful laws, taking it away from the
middle class and investing it in the very rich. And
if you look at the number of the income tax returns
here, Is this what Reagan calls the Second
American Revolution? Well, it is one. Yes, it's
the Second American Revolution. Taking property
from the poor and giving it to the rich. It's never
happened before in our history to this extent. The
number of returns here of people, if you add all
these up, with under $25,000 a year, that's 70% of
all income tax returns in the United States. If you
take the number under $50,000 a year, and add these
that get over $50,000, that's 7%. 93% of all the
income tax returns are under $50,000. 70% under
$25,000. And that's where you look at the millions
of the number of returns and the gross income,
where the income's coming in, in those hundreds of
billions. Now, when they cut the income taxes 25%,
if you earn under 25%, you've lost money because
they've raised the local taxes. Look everywhere.
Your school taxes and all make up for this. If
you're earning under $50,000, you've probably
lost. Probably lost. You may not. Your family
situation may be such that you didn't lose. But
generally. You've lost if you're under $50,000.
That's 93% of all the returns. It's just robbing
you of the others. And people are swallowing that
because the press is big money and it's helped put
this fake thing over. It's on myths, false myths,
falsehoods. And the Democrats are so pitifully
weak up there, they're not educating the people.
They'll say it and smile. My God, you tell somebody
he's a criminal, what district attorney could get
up and convict a criminal by smiling to the jury?
You know, when you're convicted of robbers and
thieves, and you ask about this, well, old Harry
Truman was the one who told the truth about that.
Harry Truman said that in his book, Frankly
Speaking, if you look at that paperback, it's not
this exact word, but that's what it meant. That the
only people who make money out of politics are
thieves and crooks. And you can steal it or take it
and drive it. Thieves and crooks.